# Pascal compiler for Looping Constructs
This project is a Pascal compiler that generates optimized intermediate code. It has been implemented using lex and yacc tools.

## Phases of Compilation
The compilation process consists of five main phases:
1. Lexical Analysis: This phase involves breaking down the source code into a series of tokens. This is accomplished using a lexical analyzer generated by the lex tool.
2. Syntax Analysis: This phase involves constructing a parse tree from the tokens generated in the previous phase. This is accomplished using a parser generated by the yacc tool.
3. Semantic Analysis: This phase involves checking the meaning of the program and ensuring that it follows the rules of the Pascal language. This phase also involves building a symbol table to keep track of identifiers in the program.
4. Intermediate Code Generation: This phase involves generating intermediate code that represents the program. This code is designed to be executed by a virtual machine.
5. Code Optimization: This phase involves transforming the intermediate code to improve its efficiency without changing its functionality. This is accomplished using a variety of techniques, such as constant folding and dead code elimination.

## What Compiler accepts?
- Pascal programs - declaration and assignment, writeln, readln and arithmetic operations ( + , - , * , / )
- While and repeat loops
## Getting Started
To run this project, you will need to have lex and yacc tools installed on your system.

To install Lex and Yacc Tools, Run the following command in terminal:
```
sudo apt-get install bison flex
```

Once you have these tools installed, you can clone this repository and run the compiler using the following command:
```
./run.sh
```
This command will compile the Pascal source code in 'test.pas' and generate optimized intermediate code in 'optimized_ICG'.

To get the symbol table, navigate to the symbol table folder and run the run.sh script: 
```
cd Symbol Table
./run.sh
```

